President Donald Trump has passed on meeting American's Nobel Prize-winning scientists and academics this week, setting off a war of words between the White House and the laureates who claim the president is just anti-science.

Officially, the White House said the president is too busy after his 12-day Asia trip to continue a longstanding tradition of presidents meeting with Nobel Prize winners before they head to Stockholm to collect their prizes in December.

But some of the eight American winners say they wouldn’t have accepted his invite anyway including Joachim Frank, a Columbia University biophysicist who won the prize in Chemistry for his study of biological molecules.

“I will not put my foot into the White House as long as Trump, Pence, or Ryan (i.e., the possible succession of impeachments) will occupy it,” Frank told STAT. “I cannot speak for the others; don’t know them personally yet, but I strongly believe that as thinking intelligent people they will have a similar attitude as I.”

Frank told The Washington Post that he was never congratulated by the Trump administration for his award.

The laureates were expecting to meet with the president before their trip to Sweden to receive their awards in December. Instead, six of the eight recipients gathered at the Swedish embassy without the president Tuesday. The White House said that it had planned on sending Michael Kratsios, Trump’s Office of Science and Technology Policy appointee.

"The president congratulates this year’s Nobel laureates," White House spokesman Raj Shah told The Washington Post. "The White House is unable to make an event work given the demands on the president’s schedule, including a 12-day trip to Asia.”

It’s no surprise the president seen as anti-establishment is bucking tradition. But it’s not the first time a president has missed out on meeting the laureates. Former President Barack Obama couldn’t make it in 2009 because he was receiving his own Nobel Prize, but he attended each year after that. In 2006, Dick Cheney filled in for George W. Bush. 

If Trump was too busy traveling, he could have postponed the traditional meeting as Obama did last year, when he invited the winners in December. 

Trump has yet to appoint two key positions in the sciences from a top science adviser to a director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy. Since his inauguration, the president has proposed cuts to the science and appointed climate science deniers to high-level positions in his administration. 

”We live in an epoch where rational reasoning associated with evidence isn’t universally accepted and is in fact in jeopardy," Rainer Weiss, a Nobel laureate winner told Reuters in October. 